[thunder crashing]
WHEN SHALL WE THREEMEET AGAIN
IN THUNDER, LIGHTNING,OR IN RAIN?
WHEN THE HURLY-BURLY'S DONE,
WHEN THE BATTLE'SLOST AND WON.
THAT WILL BEERE THE SET OF SUN.
WHERE THE PLACE?
UPON THE HEATH.
THERE TO MEETWITH MACBETH.
I COME, GRAYMALKIN.
PADDOCK CALLS.
ANON.
FAIR IS FOUL,AND FOUL IS FAIR.
HOVER THROUGH THE FOGAND FILTHY AIR.
WHAT BLOODY MAN IS THAT?
HE CAN REPORT,AS SEEMETH BY HIS PLIGHT,
OF THE REVOLT THE NEWEST STATE.
THIS ISTHE SERGEANT WHO,
LIKE A GOODAND HARDY SOLDIER,
FOUGHT 'GAINSTMY CAPTIVITY.
HAIL, BRAVE FRIEND.
SAY TO THE KINGTHE KNOWLEDGE OF THE BROIL
AS THOU DIDST LEAVE IT.
[gasping]
DOUBTFUL IT STOOD,
AS TWO SPENT SWIMMERSTHAT DO CLING TOGETHER
AND CHOKE THEIR ART.
A MERCILESS MACDONWALD--WORTHY TO BE A REBEL,
FOR TO THAT THE MULTIPLYINGVILLAINIES OF NATURE
DO SWARM UPON HIM--
FROM THE WESTERN ISLESOF KERNS AND GALLOWGLASSES
IS SUPPLIED.
AND FORTUNE, ON HIS DAMNEDQUARREL SMILING,
SHOWED LIKEA REBEL'S WHORE.
BUT ALL'S TOO WEAK.
FOR BRAVE MACBETH--AND WELLHE DESERVES THAT NAME--
DISDAINING FORTUNE,WITH HIS BRANDISHED STEEL
WHICH SMOKEDWITH BLOODY EXECUTION,
LIKE VALOR'S MINIONCARVED OUT HIS PASSAGE
TILL HE FACED THE SLAVE,
WHICH NE'ER SHOOK HANDSNOR BADE FAREWELL TO HIM
TILL HE UNSEAMED HIMFROM THE NAVE TO THE CHAPS!
[gasps]
AND FIXED HIS HEADUPON OUR BATTLEMENTS.
OH, VALIANT COUSIN!WORTHY GENTLEMAN!
AS WHENCE THE SUN'GINS HIS REFLECTION
SHIPWRECKING STORMSAND DIREFUL THUNDERS BREAK,
SO FROM THAT SPRINGWHENCE COMFORT SEEMED TO COME
DISCOMFORT SWELLS.
MARK, KING OF SCOTLAND, MARK.
NO SOONER JUSTICE HAD,WITH VALOR ARMED,
COMPELLED THESE SKIPPING KERNSTO TRUST THEIR HEELS,
THAN THE NORWEYAN LORD,SURVEYING VANTAGE,
WITH FURBISHED ARMSAND NEW SUPPLIES OF MEN,
BEGAN A FRESH ASSAULT.
DISMAYED NOT THIS OUR CAPTAINS,MACBETH AND BANQUO?
YES, AS SPARROWS EAGLESOR THE HARE THE LION.
IF I SAY SOOTH, I MUST REPORTTHEY WERE AS CANNONS
OVERCHARGED WITH DOUBLE CRACKS,
SO THEY DOUBLY REDOUBLED STROKESUPON THE FOE.
EXCEPT THEY MEANT TO BATHEIN REEKING WOUNDS
OR MEMORIZE ANOTHER GOLGOTHA,I CANNOT TELL!
[moans]
I AM FAINT.
MY GASHES CRY FOR HELP.
SO WELL THY WORDS BECOME THEEAS THY WOUNDS.
THEY SMACK OF HONOR BOTH.GO GET HIM SURGEONS.
WHO COMES HERE?
THE WORTHY THANEOF ROSS.
WHAT A HASTE LOOKSTHROUGH HIS EYES.
SO SHOULD HE SPEAKTHINGS STRANGE.
GOD SAVE THE KING.
WHENCE CAMEST THOU?
FROM FIFE, GREAT KING,
WHERE THE NORWEYAN BANNERSFLOUT THE SKY
AND FAN OUR PEOPLE COLD.
NORWAY HIMSELF,WITH TERRIBLE NUMBERS,
ASSISTED BYTHAT MOST DISLOYAL TRAITOR,
THE THANE OF CAWDOR,
BEGAN A DISMAL CONFLICT,
TILL THAT BELLONA'S BRIDEGROOM,LAPPED IN PROOF,
CONFRONTED HIMWITH SELF-COMPARISONS,
POINT AGAINSTPOINT REBELLIOUS,
ARM 'GAINST ARM,
CURBING HIS LAVISH SPIRIT.
AND, TO CONCLUDE,THE VICTORY FELL ON US.
GREAT HAPPINESS!
THAT NOW SWENO,THE NORWAYS' KING,
CRAVES COMPOSITION.
NOR WOULD WE DEIGN HIMBURIAL OF HIS MEN
TILL HE DISBURSED,AT SAINT COLME'S INCH,
$10,000 TOOUR GENERAL USE.
NO MORE THAT THANE OF CAWDOR
SHALL DECEIVEOUR BOSOM INTEREST.
GO.  PRONOUNCEHIS PRESENT DEATH,
AND WITH HIS FORMER TITLEGREET MACBETH.
I'LL SEE IT DONE.
WHAT HE HATH LOST,NOBLE MACBETH HATH WON.
WHERE HASTTHOU BEEN, SISTER?
KILLING SWINE.
SISTER, WHERE THOU?
A SAILOR'S WIFE HAD CHESTNUTSIN HER LAP,
AND MOUNCHED, AND MOUNCHED,AND MOUNCHED.
"GIVE ME," QUOTH I.
"AROINT THEE, WITCH!"THE RUMP-FED RONYON CRIES.
HER HUSBAND'S TO ALEPPO GONE,MASTER O' THE TIGER.
BUT IN A SIEVEI'LL THITHER SAIL
AND, LIKE A RATWITHOUT A TAIL,
I'LL DO, I'LL DO,AND I'LL DO.
I'LL GIVE THEE A WIND.
THOU'RT KIND.
AND I ANOTHER.
I MYSELFHAVE ALL THE OTHER,
AND THE VERY PORTS THEY BLOW,
ALL THE QUARTERS THAT THEY KNOWI' THE SHIPMAN'S CARD.
I'LL DRAIN HIM DRY AS HAY.
SLEEP SHALLNEITHER NIGHT NOR DAY
HANG UPON HIS PENTHOUSE LID.
HE SHALL LIVE A MAN FORBID.
WEARY SEV'NNIGHTSNINE TIMES NINE
SHALL HE DWINDLE, PEAK,AND PINE.
THOUGH HIS BARK CANNOT BE LOST,YET IT SHALL BE TEMPEST-TOST.
LOOK WHAT I HAVE.
SHOW ME.
HERE I HAVE A PILOT'S THUMB,
WRECKED AS HOMEWARDHE DID COME.
[drum beating cadence nearby]
A DRUM, A DRUM.
MACBETH DOTH COME.
THE WEIRD SISTERS,HAND IN HAND--
POSTERS OFTHE SEA AND LAND--
THUS DO GOABOUT, ABOUT.
THRICE TO THINE.
AND THRICE TO MINE.
THRICE AGAIN,TO MAKE UP NINE.
PEACE.THE CHARM'S WOUND UP.
SO FOUL AND FAIR A DAYI HAVE NOT SEEN.
HOW FAR IS 'TCALLED TO FORRES?
[yells]
WHAT ARE THESE...
SO WITHERED AND SO WILDIN THEIR ATTIRE,
THAT LOOK NOT LIKETHE INHABITANTS O' THE EARTH
BUT YET ARE ON IT?
LIVE YOU?
[chuckles]
OR ARE YOU AUGHTTHAT MAN MAY QUESTION?
YOU SEEM TO UNDERSTAND ME,BY EACH AT ONCE
HER CHOPPY FINGER LAYINGUPON HER SKINNY LIPS.
[laughs]
YOU SHOULD BE WOMEN,AND YET YOUR BEARDS
FORBID ME TO INTERPRETTHAT YOU ARE SO.
SPEAK, IF YOU CAN.WHAT ARE YOU?
ALL HAIL,MACBETH.
HAIL TO THEE,THANE OF GLAMIS.
(second witch) ALL HAIL, MACBETH.
HAIL TO THEE, THANE OF CAWDOR.
(third witch) ALL HAIL, MACBETH,
THAT SHALT BE KING HEREAFTER.
GOOD SIR,WHY DO YOU START,
AND SEEM TO FEAR THINGSTHAT DO SOUND SO FAIR?
IN THE NAME OF TRUTH,ARE YE FANTASTICAL,
OR THAT INDEEDWHICH OUTWARDLY YE SHOW?
MY NOBLE PARTNERYOU GREET WITH PRESENT GRACE
AND GREAT PREDICTION OF NOBLEHAVING AND OF ROYAL HOPE,
THAT HE SEEMS RAPT WITHAL.
TO ME YOU SPEAK NOT.
IF YOU CAN LOOKINTO THE SEEDS OF TIME
AND SAY WHICH GRAIN WILL GROWAND WHICH WILL NOT,
SPEAK THEN TO ME,
WHO NEITHER BEG NOR FEARYOUR FAVORS NOR YOUR HATE.
HAIL.
LESSER THAN MACBETH,AND GREATER.
NOT SO HAPPY, YET MUCH HAPPIER.
THOU SHALT GET KINGS, THOUGH THOU BE NONE.
SO ALL HAIL, MACBETH AND BANQUO.
BANQUO AND MACBETH,ALL HAIL.
STAY!
YOU IMPERFECT SPEAKERS,TELL ME MORE.
BY SINEL'S DEATH I KNOWI AM THANE OF GLAMIS,BUT HOW OF CAWDOR?
THE THANE OF CAWDOR LIVES,A PROSPEROUS GENTLEMAN,
AND TO BE KINGSTANDS NOT WITHINTHE PROSPECT OF BELIEF,
NO MORE THANTO BE CAWDOR.
SAY FROM WHENCE YOU OWETHIS STRANGE INTELLIGENCE.
OR WHY UPON THIS BLASTED HEATHYOU STOP OUR WAY
WITH SUCHPROPHETIC GREETING.
SPEAK!  SPEAK!I CHARGE YOU!
[thunder rumbling]
THE EARTH HATH BUBBLESAS THE WATER HAS,
AND THESE ARE OF THEM.
WITHER ARE THEY VANISHED?
INTO THE AIR.
AND WHAT SEEMED CORPORAL
MELTED AS BREATHINTO THE WIND.
WOULD THEY HAD STAYED.
WERE SUCH THINGS HEREAS WE DO SPEAK ABOUT?
OR HAVE WE EATENON THE INSANE ROOT
THAT TAKESTHE REASON PRISONER?
YOUR CHILDRENSHALL BE KINGS.
[both laugh]
YOU SHALL BE KING!
AND THANE OF CAWDOR TOO.WENT IT NOT SO?
TO THE SELFSAMETUNE AND WORDS.
[metal clanks]
WHAT'S THAT?
THE KING HATHHAPPILY RECEIVED, MACBETH,
THE NEWS OF THY SUCCESS.
AND WHEN HE READSTHY PERSONAL VENTURE
IN THE REBELS' FIGHT,
HIS WONDERS AND HIS PRAISESDO CONTEND
WHICH SHOULD BE THINE OR HIS.
SILENCED WITH THAT,
IN VIEWING O'ER THE REST O' THE SELFSAME DAY,
HE FINDS THEEIN THE STOUT NORWEYAN RANKS,
NOTHING AFEARD OF WHATTHYSELF DIDST MAKE,
STRANGE IMAGES OF DEATH.
AS THICK AS HAIL CAME POST WITH POST,
AND EVERY ONEDID BEAR THY PRAISES
IN HIS KINGDOM'SGREAT DEFENSE,
AND POURED THEM DOWNBEFORE HIM.
WE ARE SENT TO GIVE THEE,FROM OUR ROYAL MASTER, THANKS,
ONLY TO HERALD THEEINTO HIS SIGHT,
NOT PAY THEE.
AND FOR AN EARNESTOF A GREATER HONOR,
HE BADE ME, FROM HIM,CALL THEE THANE OF CAWDOR.
IN WHICH ADDITION,
HAIL, MOST WORTHY THANE, FOR IT IS THINE.
WHAT, CAN THE DEVILSPEAK TRUE?
THE THANE OF CAWDOR LIVES.
WHY DO YOU DRESS MEIN BORROWED ROBES?
WHO WAS THE THANELIVES YET,
BUT UNDER HEAVY JUDGMENTBEARS THAT LIFE
WHICH HE DESERVES TO LOSE.
WHETHER HE WAS COMBINEDWITH THOSE OF NORWAY,
OR DID LINE THE REBELWITH HIDDEN HELP AND VANTAGE,
OR THAT WITH BOTH
HE LABORED IN HIS COUNTRY'S WRECK,
I KNOW NOT.
BUT TREASONS CAPITAL, CONFESSED AND PROVED,
HAVE OVERTHROWN HIM.
[thinking]GLAMIS, AND THANE OF CAWDOR.
THE GREATEST IS BEHIND.
THANKS FOR YOUR PAINS.
DO YOU NOT HOPE YOUR CHILDRENSHALL BE KINGS,
WHEN THOSE THAT GAVETHE THANE OF CAWDOR TO ME
PROMISED NO LESS TO THEM?
THAT, TRUSTED HOME,
MIGHT YET ENKINDLE YOUUNTO THE CROWN,
BESIDES THE THANEOF CAWDOR.
BUT 'TIS STRANGE.
AND OFTENTIMES,TO WIN US TO OUR HARM,
THE INSTRUMENTS OF DARKNESSTELL US TRUTHS,
WIN US WITHHONEST TRIFLES,
TO BETRAY USIN DEEPEST CONSEQUENCE.
COUSINS,A WORD, I PRAY.
TWO TRUTHS ARE TOLD
AS HAPPY PROLOGUESTO THE SWELLING
OF THE IMPERIAL THEME.
THIS SUPERNATURAL SOLICITINGCANNOT BE ILL...
CANNOT BE GOOD.
IF ILL, WHY HATH IT GIVEN MEEARNEST OF SUCCESS,
COMMENCING IN A TRUTH?
I AM THANE OF CAWDOR.
IF GOOD, WHY DO I YIELDTO THAT SUGGESTION
WHOSE HORRID IMAGE DOTHUNFIX MY HAIR
AND MAKE MY SEATED HEARTKNOCK AT MY RIBS
AGAINST THE USE OF NATURE?
PRESENT FEARS ARE LESSTHAN HORRIBLE IMAGININGS.
MY THOUGHT, WHOSE MURDER YETIS BUT FANTASTICAL,
SHAKES SOMY SINGLE STATE OF MAN
THAT FUNCTION IS SMOTHEREDIN SURMISE,
AND NOTHING ISBUT WHAT IS NOT.
LOOK, HOWOUR PARTNER'S RAPT.
IF CHANCEWILL HAVE ME KING,
WHY, CHANCEMAY CROWN ME,
WITHOUT MY STIR.
NEW HONORS COME UPON HIM,LIKE OUR STRANGE GARMENTS,
CLEAVE NOT TO THEIR MOLDBUT WITH THE AID OF USE.
COME WHAT COME MAY,
TIME AND THE HOUR RUNSTHROUGH THE ROUGHEST DAY.
WORTHY MACBETH,WE STAY UPON YOUR LEISURE.
GIVE ME YOUR FAVOR.
MY DULL BRAIN WAS WROUGHTWITH THINGS FORGOTTEN.
KIND GENTLEMEN,YOUR PAINS ARE REGISTERED
WHERE EVERY DAYI TURN TO LEAFTO READ THEM.
LET USTOWARD THE KING.
THINK UPON WHATHATH CHANCED,
AND AT MORE TIME,THE INTERIM HAVING WEIGHED IT,
LET US SPEAK OUR FREE HEARTSEACH TO OTHER.
VERY GLADLY.
TILL THEN, ENOUGH.
COME, FRIENDS!
IS EXECUTION DONEON CAWDOR?
ARE NOT THOSE IN COMMISSIONYET RETURNED?
(Malcolm)MY LIEGE, THEY ARENOT YET COME BACK.
BUT I HAVE SPOKE WITH ONETHAT SAW HIM DIE,
WHO DID REPORT THAT VERY FRANKLYHE CONFESSED HIS TREASONS,
IMPLORED YOUR HIGHNESS' PARDON,
AND SET FORTHA DEEP REPENTANCE.
NOTHING IN HIS LIFE BECAME HIMLIKE THE LEAVING IT.
HE DIED AS ONE THAT HAD BEENSTUDIED IN HIS DEATH
TO THROW AWAYTHE DEAREST THING HE OW'D
AS 'TWERE A CARELESS TRIFLE.
THERE IS NO ART TO FINDTHE MIND'S CONSTRUCTION
IN THE FACE.
HE WAS A GENTLEMAN ON WHOMI BUILT AN ABSOLUTE TRUST.
O WORTHIEST COUSIN!
THE SIN OF MY INGRATITUDEEVEN NOW WAS HEAVY ON ME.
THOU ART SO FAR BEFORETHAT SWIFTEST WING OF RECOMPENSE
IS SLOW TO OVERTAKE THEE.
WOULD THOU HADST LESS DESERVED,
THAT THE PROPORTIONBOTH OF THANKS AND PAYMENT
MIGHT HAVE BEEN MINE.
ONLY I HAVE LEFTTO SAY,
MORE IS THY DUETHAN MORE THAN ALL CAN PAY.
THE SERVICEAND THE LOYALTY I OWE,
IN DOING IT,PAYS ITSELF.
YOUR HIGHNESS' PARTIS TO RECEIVE OUR DUTIES,
AND OUR DUTIES ARETO YOUR THRONE AND STATE,
CHILDREN AND SERVANTS,
WHICH DOBUT WHAT THEY SHOULD,
BY DOING EVERYTHING SAFETOWARD YOUR LOVE AND HONOR.
WELCOME HITHER.
I HAVE BEGUNTO PLANT THEE,
AND WILL LABORTO MAKE THEE FULL OF GROWING.
NOBLE BANQUO,THAT HAST NO LESS DESERVED,
NOR MUST BE KNOWN NO LESSTO HAVE DONE SO,
LET ME INFOLD THEEAND HOLD THEE TO MY HEART.
THERE IF I GROW,THE HARVEST IS YOUR OWN.
MY PLENTEOUS JOYS,WANTON IN FULLNESS,
SEEK TO HIDE THEMSELVESIN DROPS OF SORROW.
SONS, KINSMEN THANES,
AND YOU WHOSE PLACESARE THE NEAREST, KNOW,
WE WILL ESTABLISH OUR ESTATEUPON OUR ELDEST, MALCOLM,
WHOM WE NAME HEREAFTER THE PRINCE OF CUMBERLAND.
WHICH HONOR MUST NOT UNACCOMPANIED INVEST HIM ONLY,
BUT SIGNS OF NOBLENESS, LIKE STARS,
SHALL SHINE ON ALL DESERVERS.
FROM HENCE TO INVERNESS,
AND BIND USFURTHER TO YOU.
I'LL BE MYSELFTHE HARBINGER,
AND MAKE JOYFULTHE HEARING OF MY WIFE
WITH YOUR APPROACH,
SO HUMBLYTAKE MY LEAVE.
MY WORTHY CAWDOR.
THE PRINCE OF CUMBERLAND.
THAT IS A STEP ON WHICHI MUST FALL DOWN
OR ELSE O'ERLEAP,
FOR IN MY WAY IT LIES.
STARS, HIDE YOUR FIRES,
LET NOT LIGHT SEEMY BLACK AND DEEP DESIRES.
THE EYE WINK AT THE HAND,
YET LET THAT BEWHICH THE EYE FEARS,
WHEN IT IS DONE, TO SEE.
TRUE, WORTHY BANQUO,HE IS FULL SO VALIANT,
AND IN HIS COMMENDATIONI AM FED.
IT IS A BANQUET TO ME.
LET'S AFTER HIM,
WHOSE CARE IS GONE BEFORETO BID US WELCOME.
IT IS A PEERLESS KINSMAN.
"THEY MET MEIN THE DAY OF SUCCESS,
"AND I HAVE LEARNEDBY THE PERFECTEST REPORT
"THEY HAVE MORE IN THEMTHAN MORTAL KNOWLEDGE.
"WHEN I BURNED IN DESIRETO QUESTION THEM FURTHER,
"THEY MADE THEMSELVES AIR,
"INTO WHICH THEY VANISHED.
"WHILES I STOOD RAPTIN THE WONDER OF IT,
"CAME MISSIVESFROM THE KING,
"WHO ALL-HAILED ME THANE OF CAWDOR,
"BY WHICH TITLE, BEFORE,THESE WEIRD SISTERS SALUTED ME,
"AND REFERRED METO THE COMING-ON OF TIME,
"WITH HAIL, KING THAT SHALT BE!
"THIS HAVE I THOUGHTIN GOOD TO DELIVER THEE,
"MY DEAREST PARTNEROF GREATNESS,
"THAT THOU MIGHTST NOT LOSETHE DUES OF REJOICING
"BY BEING IGNORANT
"OF WHAT GREATNESSIS PROMISED THEE.
LAY IT TO THY HEART,AND FAREWELL."
GLAMIS THOU ART,
AND CAWDOR,
AND SHALT BEWHAT THOU ART PROMISED.
YET DO I FEAR THY NATURE.
IT IS TOO FULL O' THE MILKOF HUMAN KINDNESS
TO CATCH THE NEAREST WAY.
THOU WOULDST BE GREAT,ART NOT WITHOUT AMBITION,
BUT WITHOUT THE ILLNESSSHOULD ATTEND IT.
WHAT THOU WOULDST HIGHLY,THAT WOULDST THOU HOLILY--
WOULDST NOT PLAY FALSE,AND YET WOULDST WRONGLY WIN.
THOU'DST HAVE, GREAT GLAMIS,THAT WHICH CRIES,
"THUS THOU MUST DO,IF THOU HAVE IT,
"AND THAT WHICH RATHERTHOU DOST FEAR TO DO
THAN WISHEST SHOULD BE UNDONE."
[sighs]
HIE THEE HITHER,
THAT I MAY POUR MY SPIRITSIN THINE EAR
AND CHASTISE WITH THE VALOROF MY TONGUE
ALL THAT IMPEDES THEEFROM THE GOLDEN ROUND
WHICH FATEAND METAPHYSICAL AID
DOTH SEEMTO HAVE THEE CROWNED WITHAL.
WHAT IS YOUR TIDINGS?
THE KING COMES TONIGHT.
THOU'RT MAD TO SAY IT.
IS NOT THY MASTER WITH HIM,
WHO, WERE 'T SO, WOULD HAVEINFORMED FOR PREPARATION?
SO PLEASE YOU, IT IS TRUE.OUR THANE IS COMING.
ONE OF MY FELLOWSHAD THE SPEED OF HIM,
WHO, ALMOST DEAD FOR BREATH,
HAD SCARCELY MORETHAN WOULD MAKE UP HIS MESSAGE.
GIVE HIM TENDING;HE BRINGS GREAT NEWS.
THE RAVEN HIMSELF IS HOARSE
THAT CROAKS THE FATAL ENTRANCEOF DUNCAN UNDER MY BATTLEMENTS.
COME...
YOU SPIRITS THAT TENDON MORTAL THOUGHTS,
UNSEX ME HERE,
AND FILL ME,FROM THE CROWN TO THE TOE,
TOPFULL OF DIREST CRUELTY.
MAKE THICK MY BLOOD,
STOP UP THE ACCESSAND PASSAGE TO REMORSE,
THAT NO COMPUNCTIOUS VISITINGSOF NATURE SHAKE MY FELL PURPOSE,
NOR KEEP PEACEBETWEEN THE EFFECT AND IT.
COME TO MY WOMAN'S BREASTS,AND TAKE MY MILK FOR GALL,
YOU MURDERING MINISTERS,
WHEREVER IN YOURSIGHTLESS SUBSTANCES
YOU WAITON NATURE'S MISCHIEF.
COME, THICK NIGHT,
AND PALL THEEIN THE DUNNEST SMOKE OF HELL,
THAT MY KEEN KNIFE SEE NOTTHE WOUND IT MAKES,
NOR HEAVEN PEEP THROUGHTHE BLANKET OF THE DARK
TO CRY, "HOLD, HOLD!"
[Lady Macbeth panting]
GREAT GLAMIS.WORTHY CAWDOR.
GREATER THAN BOTH,BY THE ALL-HAIL HEREAFTER.
THY LETTERS HAVE TRANSPORTED MEBEYOND THIS IGNORANT PRESENT,
AND I FEEL NOWTHE FUTURE IN THE INSTANT.
[sighs]
MY...DEAREST...
LOVE.
DUNCAN COMES HERE TONIGHT.
AND WHEN GOES HENCE?
TOMORROW.
AS HE PURPOSES.
OH, NEVER SHALL SUNTHAT MORROW SEE.
YOUR FACE, MY THANE,
IS AS A BOOK WHERE MENMAY READ STRANGE MATTERS.
TO BEGUILE THE TIME,LOOK LIKE THE TIME.
BEAR WELCOME IN YOUR EYE,YOUR HAND, YOUR TONGUE.
LOOK LIKE THE INNOCENT FLOWERBUT BE THE SERPENT UNDER IT.
HE THAT'S COMINGMUST BE PROVIDED FOR.
AND YOU SHALL PUTTHIS NIGHT'S GREAT BUSINESS
INTO MY DISPATCH,WHICH SHALL,
TO ALL OUR NIGHTSAND DAYS TO COME,
GIVE SOLELY SOVEREIGN SWAYAND MASTERDOM.
WE WILL SPEAK FURTHER.
ONLY LOOK UP CLEAR.
TO ALTER FAVOREVER IS TO FEAR.
LEAVE ALL THE RESTTO ME.
[hautboys playing fanfare]
THIS CASTLEHATH A PLEASANT SEAT,
THE AIR NIMBLY AND SWEETLYRECOMMENDS ITSELF
UNTO OUR GENTLE SENSES.
THIS GUEST OF SUMMER,THE TEMPLE-HAUNTING MARTLET,
DOES APPROVEBY HIS LOVED MANSIONRY
THAT THE HEAVEN'S BREATHSMELLS WOOINGLY HERE.
NO JUTTY, FRIEZE,BUTTRESS, NOR COIGN OF VANTAGE
BUT THIS BIRD HATH MADEHER PENDENT BED
AND PROCREANT CRADLE.
WHERE THEYMOST BREED AND HAUNT,
I HAVE OBSERVEDTHE AIR IS DELICATE.
SEE, SEE,OUR HONORED HOSTESS.
THE LOVE THAT FOLLOWS USSOMETIMES IS OUR TROUBLE,
WHICH STILLWE THANK AS LOVE.
HEREIN I TEACH YOU
HOW YOU SHALL BID GOD 'ILD USFOR YOUR PAINS,
AND THANK USFOR YOUR TROUBLE.
ALL OUR SERVICEIN EVERY POINT TWICE DONE,
AND THEN DONE DOUBLE,
WERE POORAND SINGLE BUSINESS
TO CONTEND AGAINSTTHOSE HONORS DEEP AND BROAD
WHEREWITH YOUR MAJESTYLOADS OUR HOUSE.
FOR THOSE OF OLD,
AND THE LATE DIGNITIESHEAPED UP TO THEM,
WE REST YOUR HERMITS.
WHERE'S THE THANEOF CAWDOR?
WE COURSED HIMAT THE HEELS,
AND HAD A PURPOSETO BE HIS PURVEYOR.
BUT HE RIDES WELL,AND HIS GREAT LOVE,
SHARP AS HIS SPUR,
HATH HOLP HIMTO HIS HOME BEFORE US.
FAIR AND NOBLE HOSTESS,WE ARE YOUR GUEST TONIGHT.
GIVE ME YOUR HAND.
CONDUCT ME TO MINE HOST.
WE LOVE HIM HIGHLY
AND SHALL CONTINUEOUR GRACES TOWARDS HIM.
[hautboys playing fanfare]
[all laughing and conversing]
IF IT WERE DONEWHEN 'TIS DONE,
THEN 'TWERE WELLIT WERE DONE QUICKLY.
IF THE ASSASSINATION
COULD TRAMMEL UPTHE CONSEQUENCE,
AND CATCH, WITH HIS SURCEASE,SUCCESS,
THAT BUT THIS BLOW MIGHT BETHE BE-ALL AND THE END-ALL HERE,
BUT HERE, UPON THIS BANKAND SHOAL OF TIME,
WE'D JUMP THE LIFE TO COME.
BUT IN THESE CASESWE STILL HAVE JUDGMENT HERE,
THAT WE BUT TEACHBLOODY INSTRUCTIONS,
WHICH BEING TAUGHT RETURNTO PLAGUE THE INVENTOR.
THIS EVEN-HANDED JUSTICE
COMMENDS THE INGREDIENTSOF OUR POISONED CHALICE
TO OUR OWN LIPS.
HE'S HERE IN DOUBLE TRUST.
FIRST, AS I AM HIS KINSMANAND HIS SUBJECT,
STRONG BOTH AGAINST THE DEED.
THEN, AS HIS HOST,
WHO SHOULD AGAINSTHIS MURDERER SHUT THE DOOR,
NOT BEAR THE KNIFE MYSELF.
BESIDES, THIS DUNCAN HATHBORNE HIS FACULTIES SO MEEK,
HATH BEEN SO CLEARIN HIS GREAT OFFICE,
THAT HIS VIRTUES WILL PLEADLIKE ANGELS TRUMPET-TONGUED
AGAINST THE DEEP DAMNATIONOF HIS TAKING-OFF.
AND PITY,LIKE A NAKED NEWBORN BABE,
STRIDING THE BLAST,
OR HEAVEN'S CHERUBIN,
HORSED UPON THE SIGHTLESSCOURIERS OF THE AIR,
SHALL BLOW THE HORRID DEEDIN EVERY EYE,
THAT TEARS SHALL DROWN THE WIND.
[sighs]
I HAVE NO SPURTO PRICK THE SIDES OF MY INTENT,
ONLY VAULTING AMBITION,WHICH O'ERLEAPS ITSELF
AND FALLS ON THE OTHER--
HOW NOW?  WHAT NEWS?
HE HAS ALMOST SUPPED.
WHY HAVE YOU LEFTTHE CHAMBER?
HATH HE ASKED FOR ME?
KNOW YOU NOT HE HAS?
WE WILL PROCEED NO FURTHERIN THIS BUSINESS.
HE HATH HONORED MEOF LATE,
AND I HAVE BOUGHTGOLDEN OPINIONS
FROM ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE,
WHICH WOULD BE WORN NOWIN THEIR NEWEST GLOSS,
NOT CAST ASIDE SO SOON.
WAS THE HOPE DRUNKWHEREIN YOU DRESSED YOURSELF?
HATH IT SLEPT SINCE?
AND WAKES IT NOW,
TO LOOK SO GREEN AND PALEAT WHAT IT DID SO FREELY?
FROM THIS TIMESUCH I ACCOUNT THY LOVE.
ART THOU AFEARED
TO BE THE SAMEIN THINE OWN ACT AND VALOR
AS THOU ART IN DESIRE?
WOULDST THOU HAVE THATWHICH THOU ESTEEM'ST
THE ORNAMENT OF LIFE
AND LIVE A COWARDIN THINE OWN ESTEEM,
LETTING "I DARE NOT"WAIT UPON "I WOULD,"
LIKE THE POOR CATI' THE ADAGE?
PEACE!
I DARE DO ALLTHAT MAY BECOME A MAN.
WHO DARES DO MORE IS NONE.
WHAT BEAST WAS 'T THEN
THAT MADE YOU BREAKTHIS ENTERPRISE TO ME?
WHEN YOU DURST DO IT,THEN YOU WERE A MAN,
AND TO BE MORETHAN WHAT YOU WERE,
YOU WOULD BESO MUCH MORE THE MAN.
NOR TIME NOR PLACEDID THEN ADHERE,
YET YOU WOULD MAKE BOTH.
THEY HAVE MADE THEMSELVES,
AND THAT, THEIR FITNESS,NOW DOES UNMAKE YOU.
I HAVE GIVEN SUCK,AND KNOW HOW TENDER 'TIS
TO LOVE THE BABETHAT MILKS ME.
I WOULD, WHILE ITWAS SMILING IN MY FACE,
HAVE PLUCKED MY NIPPLEFROM HIS BONELESS GUMS
AND DASHEDTHE BRAINS OUT,
HAD I SO SWORNAS YOU HAVE DONE TO THIS.
IF WE SHOULD FAIL?
WE FAIL.
BUT SCREW YOUR COURAGETO THE STICKING-PLACE
AND WE'LL NOT FAIL.
WHEN DUNCAN IS ASLEEP--
WHERETO THE RATHERSHALL HIS DAY'S HARD JOURNEY
SOUNDLY INVITE HIM--
HIS TWO CHAMBERLAINSWILL I WITH WINE AND WASSAIL
SO CONVINCE
THAT MEMORY,THE WARDER OF THE BRAIN,
SHALL BE A FUME,
AND THE RECEIPT OF REASONA LIMBEC ONLY.
WHEN IN SWINISH SLEEPTHEIR DRENCHED NATURES LIE
AS IN A DEATH,
WHAT CANNOT YOU AND I PERFORMUPON THE UNGUARDED DUNCAN?
WHAT NOT PUT UPONHIS SPONGY OFFICERS,
WHO SHALL BEAR THE GUILTOF OUR GREAT QUELL?
BRING FORTHMEN-CHILDREN ONLY,
FOR THINEUNDAUNTED METTLE
SHOULD COMPOSENOTHING BUT MALES.
WILL IT NOT BE RECEIVED,
WHEN WE HAVE MARKEDWITH BLOOD
THOSE SLEEPY TWOOF HIS OWN CHAMBER
AND USED THEIR VERY DAGGERS,THAT THEY HAVE DONE 'T?
WHO DARESRECEIVE IT OTHER,
AS WE SHALLMAKE OUR GRIEFS
AND CLAMOR ROARUPON HIS DEATH?
I AM SETTLED,
AND BEND UPEACH CORPORAL AGENT
TO THIS TERRIBLE FEAT.
AWAY,
AND MOCK THE TIMEWITH FAIREST SHOW.
FALSE FACE MUST HIDEWHAT THE FALSE HEART DOTH KNOW.
[men pounding table]